CLIENT SIDE MODULE
CONTENTS
This module has the following files:
1.	MODULE_CLIENT_SIDE.doc 
2.	MODULE_CLIENT_SIDE_MEDIA.zip

INTRODUCTION
You are asked to develop a game called BOMBSKUY using HTML and CSS and develop client-side programming using JavaScript. Some media files are available to you in a zip file. You can create more media and modify anything in the media if you want. Your game needs to be developed in a tablet resolution (1000 x 600 pixels). In bigger resolution, the game must be centred in the screen both horizontally and vertically.
DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS AND TASKS
You can create the layout using HTML/CSS and create the functionality of the game using JavaScript that allows the game to work correctly in different web browsers. EcmaScript 6 / Javascript Modules not allowed for this module. This module will be marked with directly opening the index.html page using Google Chrome.
BOMBSKUY game screen should have meet these requirements below:
1.	Player Name
2.	Gameboard
3.	Character
4.	Player Lives
5.	Total Items
6.	Timer

Game functionalities
1.	Game should be on a single page application (index.html). No refresh / reload page and additional html page for any action.
2.	Display a welcome screen in the centre of the page when the game loads.
3.	Players can Start the game after filling the username field and click the “Play Game” button at the bottom of the welcome page.
4.	The “Play Game” button should remain disabled until a username is entered..
5.	After entering a username and clicking "Play Game", the player should choose one of three difficulty levels: Easy, Medium, or Hard.
6.	After selecting a difficulty level, show a countdown in the centre of the screen for 3 seconds before the game starts.
7.	Provide an "Instruction" button that, when clicked, displays the game instructions.
8.	Users can close instructions after clicking the “X” button.
9.	Players will get 3 hearts when the game starts.
10.	The number of dogs (computer-controlled opponents) is determined by the difficulty level:
a.	1 Dog for Easy
b.	2 Dogs for Medium
c.	3 Dogs for Hard
11.	the dog's position will be random
12.	The player’s character starts in the top-left corner of the game map when the game begins.
13.	Place brick walls randomly around the game map to act as obstacles that players cannot pass through.
14.	Place stone walls according to the given game maps as follow:
 (MODULE_CLIENT_MEDIA/Example/'03. Game 1.jpg')
Image 1. Stone walls placement.
15.	The player can move their character using the following keys:
a.	“A” or “Left arrow” to move left
b.	“W” or “Up arrow ” to move up
c.	“D” or “Right arrow” to move right
d.	“S” or “Down arrow” to move down
16.	Pressing the Space key allows the player to place a bomb.
17.	The bomb will explode 5 seconds after being placed.
18.	Bomb explosions affect one box in each direction: up, down, left, and right..
19.	The wall will destroyed after hit by a bomb explosion
20.	Items are hidden inside walls and appear when walls are destroyed.
21.	The items that will be there are as follows:
a.	Broken Heart: Decreases the player’s hearts.
b.	TNT: Doubles the bomb’s explosion range
c.	Ice cube: Freezes the player for 5 seconds.
22.	The item disappears after being touched by the player.
23.	When a player gets an item, the player's character will have a mark of that item.
24.	Each items that player gets will be increase are as follows:
a.	Destroyed walls 
b.	TnT earned
c.	Ice box obtained
25.	Walking animation when the character is moving must be shown.
26.	The dog (computer) can move as needed and 
27.	The dog (computer) must search for players.
28.	Hearts decrease if the player is hit by a bomb explosion or touches a dog.
29.	Show animation on the character when the player touches the bomb explosion and dog.
30.	Players can pause the game by pressing the Esc key.
31.	When paused, display a popup, and the game should stop until Esc is pressed again or the Continue button is clicked.
32.	Game Over when the heart reaches 0.
33.	Show popup after game over to display the player username, time elapsed, total score, Save score button and Leaderboards button.
34.	Match history should be saved in local storage after the player clicks the Save Score button.
35.	Players can see the leaderboards after clicking the Leaderboards Button.
36.	Clicking the Leaderboard button displays a leaderboard sorted by:
a.	Total walls destroyed
b.	TNTs collected
c.	Ice cubes obtained
37.	The game needs to work correctly on Google Chrome.
INSTRUCTION FOR COMPETITORS
1.	Create a root folder called XX_CLIENT_MODULE in your local computer, where XX is your computer number.
2.	Place your works inside the root folder. Make sure your works are working well when directly opening the index.html file.
3.	Zip your root folder XX_CLIENT_MODULE and submit to the submission page

Example	
These following images are for example purposes only. You may design your own game layout. 
(see Example folder)
        
